Right.
Well, I mean, I'm loaded with stories.
Okay, so I'm on and we're talking to Bob.
What do you call this room here, Bob?
This is my, actually, I lovingly call it the weird room.
The weird room.
And I have my TV down there.
I go up here, close the door.
Just tell me again briefly what you have in here, some of the things.
The things that mean the most to me, actually.
My shrunken head collection.
How many shrunken heads in the collection?
My skulls.
Some Klu Klux Klan outfits, which offend a lot of people, but I love the history of it.
Well, somebody has to collect, document the seeds of hate.
That's right, that's right.
Somebody has to keep that stuff.
And I say that in my new books that I use all the time.
I'm still a bibliophile, I don't go to the computer as much as I...
I can find it in the book by the time they turn on the computer.
So you might have said it again, how many shrunken heads?
Thirty-eight.
Thirty-eight, and how many skulls do we have?
I've got about forty-five skulls, and most of them have history.
All of them have history to them.
You're anticipating, so you don't even know who they are in many cases.
Some I do, yes.
I mean, like one I got when I was sixteen years old.
It came from the site of the Washington DC.
He was a Confederate Civil War soldier.
I don't know who he was, but... And then I've had friends of people look at him and tell me the sizes of the heads and the weights and the heights and all that kind of thing.
Hey, Alan, I'm going to show you this.
Look, look at this.
Yeah, what is that?
Yeah, it's Frazier's wife who did, you know... But this is... Wow!
Oh, I bet!
Where did that map?
Off in the federal building.
I don't know which building.
Syracuse University has the... Isn't it standard?
I'm going to find out.
Amazing.
But it was done in 1932 for the... So, Bob, you said that you haven't really documented.
I mean, you're not documented so much, but you haven't really catalogued... No, but I'm starting slowly, but it's a very...
You need a computer for that, you know.
Yeah, well, what I'm going to do is... So you're opening a book right now that's a skull collection.
Right, but I've taken photographs, and I've got documents for each one, so I'm going to document them, and I have them... Well, I have them all written up, and... Hey, Bob, whose name is this?
George Washington.
Yeah, we don't want to talk about that too much.
Say that again?
We don't want to talk about that.
There's another piece we don't want to talk about is
The Attorney General of the United States' head over there, William Wirt, who ran for the presidency.
So what happened?
How did it... It was grave rob in the 60s.
It was a congressional cemetery.
I didn't do it, but it's a piece that I really admire.
I've given William Wirt more credit than he's due, actually.
So we said this is Washington's hair here?
No.
This was in the Birkin Herbert Bank for years.
Yeah.
It's just a wild piece.
If it's not his finger, it's somebody's finger.
Is that what I think it is?
No, I got this about 87.
This is wood from Washington's tomb.
So who rubbed Washington's tomb?
In 1830, they moved from the old tomb to the new tomb, which is that.
That would make sense.
Isn't this a wonderful piece?
Look what it's on.
A barrel.
So finish the story.
So they dug him up under a military guard and they thought they'd pick him up and they invited the Kremlin Society to view the father of our country's reburial.
All these big wigs from Alexander standing around, the casket fell apart.
And there he was.
It splattered.
Yeah, so it's a chestnut casket.
So they had to go to Alexander and get another casket.
So his remains were?
Were splattered.
Now, was it Jim Burke?
It was Jim Burke.
So Jim Burke.
great-grandfather got it.
From Lear.
It was always in the lobby and then was brought upstairs and put in the vault, right?
I believe.
Originally they put it in the lobby and people thought it was offensive.
It was there for like a long time.
Then they put it in the vault.
Then Jim Burke the 4th supposedly sold it to Larry.
Larry got really friendly with him and all that shit.
And then Larry purportedly
Mount Vernon knows that I have it, but the fact that I don't display it or do anything with it, they're okay with it, so they're like pissed that I have it.
You bought this from Larry.
This is the last thing you bought from Larry that I walked in with Larry.
3,000-year-old sarcophagus.
Yeah, I remember that.
Okay?
Larry didn't have ownership of that.
I know.
I paid him like 10 grand for it.
Right.
He calls me up and says, I gotta have that back.
Yeah, I remember that.
So I said, well, Larry, you're a friend.
I'll give it back to you.
I don't have the 10 grand.
I said, we know what I want.
And he went, I can't get rid of that.
And I go, well, you know where it is if we want to do that.
So he gave me that and traded for the money.
That's when I signed on as Larry's executive.
That's exactly what I was having.
The sarcophagus vanished.
I knew you had gotten it.
Well, he sent it back to somebody else.
I know exactly what happened because he owed that to me.
Okay.
Okay, because I lent him the money.
Okay, this puts it all together.
Okay, now you can basically clean up a graph of about two months of my life.
With Larry.
Yeah.
Okay.
You had stopped working with him for a short period of time.
He called me up, asked me to become the executive of the state to get the money.
I really wasn't working.
We were just friends.
Well, he was using you.
No, he would tell everybody different stories.
Yeah, here he is.
We were just friends.
I mean, we were just friends.
I was meeting once in a while in the parking lot at NASA.
Right.
So, Larry, where?
Larry, Bob.
That is from Bergen-Belsen.
That's an original.
She's wearing one from Bergen-Belsen.
It's much higher, but that's an original from Bergen-Belsen.
A town right near there was found in an attic.
You know, when they released prisoners, they just went out and did their jobs.
And a lot of this stuff is stuff that I had when I was little, like the Mickey Mouse clock and my Hopalong Cassidy boots and things mixed in, you know.
It's memories, but you know.
Shoes from Mount Halston.
This is a Jewish woman's head.
This is the only head that didn't make
the book, because it's way too offensive.
Which head is this?
This is the head of a Jewish woman from Buchenwald.
They shrunk it?
Yeah, it was from Kud's name.
Who's a woman?
She was the doctor, she's the wife of the woman.
Why did they do that?
They used them for paperweights.
See the base?
It's exactly, these are the ones that were on it.
That's horrible.
It's horrible.
They used human skin.
I don't want to handle it.
No, I'm not going to.
I would never do that.
No, no, no.
I just want you to see that here's a booting ball.
This is the evidence table.
It's an original signal for a photograph.
You see two shrunken heads here, and these are the prisoners holding it up.
People go, they didn't do that.
Well, here's all the tattoos and lampshades.
How could they deny this?
Oh, that's crazy.
You know, I just finished appraising yesterday.
You know, the appraising for the Holocaust, I think.
Yeah, I know that.
I just did all the artwork from Therese.
There's a catalog of that, you know.
No, this is a new collection that hasn't been seen.
From where?
From Therese.
Really?
From Therese Stock.
Therese Stock, yeah.
Nobody uses Therese Stock.
Everybody uses Therese Stock.
Therese Stock.
Actually, Therese Stock.
That came from a person who was the last head of the Jewish community in Berlin.
What is that Dachau?
That's a cuff title for an SS officer.
Zyklon B.
Yeah, that's one of the labels.
For the cans.
You know what unfortunately is?
They're very easy to obtain them.
The cans are almost, you know, you can buy them.
They're so available.
There were so many cans that were confiscated that were taken.
And a lot of people used the cans for other things.
Other things, yeah.
And they took the labels off and all of them.
Right, and so the cans, they automatically assumed they were in the camps.
And when in fact a lot of them have been sold as camp artifacts and they're not.
It's one of the hardest things when I'm going through the artifacts at the museum, trying to differentiate between actually camp-used artifacts versus materials that were made by the companies that were not used in the community.
Right.
See, like, this is from Dr. Allen.
There's salt and pepper shaker holders, but they were made by the prisoners.
Right.
So we don't know the identity of that woman, let's just tell you.
No, no.
The other is very, very volatile.
I mean, this shrunken head guy didn't even want to put it in the book.
Now, what book are we talking about?
This book over here.
Why don't you think it's a crush?
It was Ilsa.
Yeah, that's what's her name, Ilsa.
Yeah, Ilsa Kosh.
Yeah.
Yeah, she was the woman who was the... Shrunken Head Institute book?
Dr. James Castner.
Actually, the long-drawn-out story... Shrunken Head's book.
Does it have a... C-A-S-T-N-E-R.
came to me when I had the museum in Florida and I was up to my ears and those... Was he working with Kennedy?
No, no, no.
He's an entomologist.
And he lives in Gainesville.
And he's a professor.
But he came to me and said, I know you have a collection of shrunken heads.
I read about you.
And he said, I want to do a book on shrunken heads.
And I said, look, that is a great thing.
That's something I've always wanted to do.
I will help you, but I'm up to my ears with Kennedy.
I can't do it now.
Give me a year.
He kept my number, called me.
We've become great friends.
He spent three days with me, made a photo studio here, and photographed all my heads, went to the Smithsonian and photographed theirs, went to Ripley's and photographed theirs, and loves mine the most.
But I said to my wife, I'm going to co-author this with you.
And she said, do you really want your name?
At that time, I was the Kennedy guy.
So she goes, do you really want your name on a shrunken head book?
Because she always complained about it, and she hates shrunken head.
So I said, well, she kind of talked me out of it.
Plus, the guy wanted, like,
10 grand, you know, up front to help him do the book.
So I said, well, I don't know, I'll do whatever you want.
Give me acknowledgement.
I got a beautiful acknowledgement in there, and all my heads are in there, so.
But actually, it is not just an art form. It's folk history.
It's ethnological or something.
National Geographic can do an article on this.
The woman who did this, Ilse Koch.
She and her husband were Gestapo officers and he was notorious.
And there's a really horrific book that was written right after the war, early pocket edition, 51-52,
on the brutality and the horror. It's just, it's beyond belief. It's grotesque. Yeah it's so horrific. Yeah see that's one of the things, when you go down, like when I went down in the system line where I've been looking for the areas that nobody ever sees. That is only for the appraisers and for the curatorial staff. When we go through the artifacts
and you start handling the really horrible stuff, and you realize the severity of the condition.
And you can even live it after you let alone survive.
And it makes you think, what did you come up with when you read Primo reading, right?
And you read and realize what he had to do to survive, the combination of luck.
Look at that box that I had in there.
One of the biggest problems with the marches from Bhutan was what they did to say they won't walk.
How can they?
Well, not only that.
To live, they could sell somebody else.
Pretty interesting.
That's how you hook up with Larry.
Kind of.
Actually, that's probably the truth.
And it all came out as a Catholicism.
It was all the core of it.
In this area, there are four physical collections in me of curiosity.
A guy named Larry Moon, a guy named William Wayman, and his wife Carla, Bob, and myself.
And I actually was more of an intermediary because I didn't collect a lot of this.
My interest was in eschatology, and so I met Larry out of interest in tapas.
You know, in just an artifact.
There was this couple named Warren.
Warren Raymond was in the Army.
He came out of the Army.
He had studied mortuary sciences.
He did not become a mortician.
He wound up working at the same time.
A woman cashier takes a job.
He talks chat me up one day and says, you know, what do you do for hobby?
She goes, I don't tell anybody what a hobby she does for him.
Because I collect cabinet photos of great children and animals.
You know what I mean when you say that.
So what have decorators come in?
What's the odds, right?
So when I'm handling the Mooney collection as an agent, Warren is all over me because he wants to get ahold of the stuff, so he invites me over the house.
Now he has essentially like bombs, which he thinks it's a little earlier than this.
It's more body parts and extremely cool.
I don't have a problem with it, but a normal human being is going to get an agent.
When Lena is born, I come back to work.
I'm just running back to get a change of clothes, and I'm going to run back.
They're waiting for me.
Now this couple don't have kids.
They have two dogs.
You go into their house in their living room.
They have a kids person, ours collection.
And the rooms get progressively more bizarre.
You get to Warren's sanctuary where you have the skulls and all the hung people, etc.
I go over there one day because they want to negotiate the purchase of a dead body that I'm handing.
It's a museum piece.
It's a legit piece.
So they're trying to show me all the oddities like I'm going to get really overwhelmed by some drinking a Coke or a Pepsi there.
And they show me all this stuff.
Long story short, I tell them I've got to get back.
We're going to have a C-section tomorrow.
I've got to get back.
And so I'll talk to them afterwards.
So I get back.
to the store for a couple of seconds, they had been waiting for me, they had bought me a Beatrice Potter, and I'll show you what you can read from the store tomorrow, a Beatrice Potter frame of bunnies, so I could put the christening picture of Lena in there.
It's on my desk.
That's nice.
Yeah, but the thing is, Lena, actually, where I got it from, I think you'll never want to know.
Just Denny got it for you.
Well, what is that piece?
I'm sorry, I was missing this.
No, I didn't see that.
So this is my website.
I just missed it.
Joan of Arc.
Okay.
She'll be on the one over there.
I have Joan of Arc stuff.
Cool.
Okay, you guys.
And then these are mummies.
Ramesses II's first cousin, exact fifth lady-in-waiting, and 3000 BC, the head of a nobleman, Egyptian, and then Inca from Peru.
Wow.
And these are...
These are pretty wild.
Did that come out of the Royal Repository, the one that they shined up on there?
No, no, no.
No, I got the years ago.
No, I'm talking about they made a big discovery in 1880.
Oh, no.
I don't know.
This came from the Cotter Museum.
This one and this one.
I got this one when I was 16.
Really?
And look at the hair.
It's still a classic curl.
Yeah.
This guy has a goatee and everything going.
Yeah, this.
It's all curl for life.
Look at that.
And so this is where you watch television up here?
Yes, I do.
Surrounded by these frames.
Look at the skull of the glass.
I know.
Yeah, I'm going to keep my glasses on.
Go ahead.
Oh, that's what we do with the other one?
Yeah.
So, Bob, tell us a bit about where we are now.
We're in my basement of my home, and my collection I just got back last week, and I'm apologizing for the way it looks, but it's not a finished basement.
My wife wants to go to theaters and all this stuff down here, but this is the way we got it.
And this is the only place I have to store it up, because
Honestly, I could get a storage area, but it's here.
I can work for it.
It's safe.
It's in my home.
And here it is.
It's just looking at 50,000 to 60,000 pieces of Kennedy that I collected from age 8 to last week.
And where had it been prior to coming here?
The Florida International Museum.
Smithsonian affiliate.
I see.
I mean, any collector in the country that I know, and in the world, actually, that started age 8.
collected my whole life, and ended up with a Smithsonian-affiliated museum, 27,000 square foot, approved by the Smithsonian, sanctioned by the Smithsonian, and put up by the state of Florida.
It was on run for five years.
I loaned my collection for 125,000 a year, which is not bad.
It's everywhere here.
The boxes, the gray boxes are
segregated because this was my travel exhibit.
We traveled last year in Dallas, where we had 240,000 people go through in 24 days at the Hall of State at the Dallas State Fair.
We did a Tropicana in Atlantic City for three months, and we did the opening at Opryland in Nashville.
And these are 15,000 square foot.
I got pictures of all of it.
And how many items did you have in these?
I had 600.
in these boxes, displayed in a museum setting with hard walls, oval office, a traveling seven tractor trailer.
So tell me some of the dazzlers that we've got here.
Well, this is the inventory of just the travel exhibit.
You can open it anywhere and see what I have, pens that things get owned.
I've got, we had it segregated from the campaign which made him his presidency.
Then we went from the early years to political beginnings, the inaugural, the West Wing, which is
going to the White House, family life in the White House, Oval Office, Evelyn Lincoln, my mentor and friend for years, her material.
On the road is his travels, domestic affairs is what he did in the U.S., his assassination, and then his legacy.
So it's 12 sections.
It's 12 galleries.
12 galleries.
Right.
Is it largely an artifactual collection, or is it... It's archival and artifacts.
I have the baby christening ring.
down to uh the flags on the car in Dallas the day he was killed. A to z there's not a period you can't name without John F. Kennedy on it. That's the way I collected. PT 109. Yeah I got I met all the crew. I just went to the two females uh the last crew member and Robert Donovan. The family invited me. I was the only representative of any Kennedy type person. I was the only person with a camera taking pictures at both funerals. Uh Gerald Zinger who was the machinist mate, they invited me and I gave him a private tour of the museum in Florida.
He had Alzheimer's.
I gave him a private tour about a year and a half before he died with his family.
And the biggest misnomer about my collection is that Evelyn Lincoln handed me everything, which is totally wrong because it's a detriment not only to her, but everybody else that helped me along the way.
But I've gotten, I've driven to Pittsburgh for one piece.
I've driven to Pennsylvania to fill my explored place back and forth.
I've gone literally to flea markets, everywhere, buying anything Kennedy since I was 14.
What would you say is the... I hate to get into the area of rarity, but would you say... The majority... The most historically important thing... Yeah, 12 rocking chairs.
This is the rocking chair right here that he's sitting with John Glenn, right here.
And that's that rock.
Tomorrow.
And this was, you know, you're old enough to remember.
It's an icon symbol, the 60s.
I'm old enough.
I was barely just too young to vote for him.
I bought it for LBJ in 64.
Just have a little to the left so I can also have the... Oh, just a little bit to the left so I can get the 50s.
The chair itself.
Yeah, that's good.
Mr. Lee.
Okay, that's good.
This was a major item of the museum.
But I also have his first rocking chair, that's in 55.
How did these fall out of possession of the family?
Well, this was in Evelyn Lincoln's office.
And, you know, back then when he was killed, this stuff went to the, scattered to the winds everywhere.
Jackie gave away a lot of stuff.
Jackie gave his valet a rocker.
He had 12 rockers made.
There's many, many, many stories about his rockers.
He had 12 rockers.
But it's so different from the rockers my wife has at the house.
This is covered with the first material of his first rocker that I got permission from Jackie Kennedy to have.
This is Lyndon Johnson's rocker that he used in the White House afterwards.
He has a bolster on the back.
I mean, we can just look in any one of these.
14 rockers.
There's programs signed by Khrushchev.
Here's signatures by Kennedy.
I know what's in each one of these, but I'd have to look them up to tell you.
But this is the christening ring.
This is the ring that he was on his finger when he was a baby.
How did that fall out of the possession of the family?
This was given to Mary Moore, a gift of the Kennedy's neighbor and friend Mary Moore.
She was the godmother.
Okay.
On top of the sign.
You might not be able to get it.
I got permission from Rose to have this off the negative.
Wow.
Look at that.
People, that's a favorite.
And you have to realize that in the Brookline home, in the Brookline home, Rose saved everything of all the kids.
So nothing exists for these babies.
You can't get anything.
It's all in the files of the Kennedy Library, these negatives.
That's off the original negative.
And baby stuff is just not around.
It's all in that house under, you know.
I'll be darned.
Of the things that you have in your collection, how much does the Kennedy Library have?
That's similar.
Do they have?
Silver or is it gold?
Oh, no.
That was the big thing is they wanted a lot of the stuff that I have, but it's mine.
What's the metal?
It's cold.
Rose had it made, gave it to Mary.
I mean, Mary Moore had it made, gave it to Rose and the baby.
The baby outgrew it.
Rose gave it back to Mary Moore.
And Mary Moore's husband was Joe Kennedy's secretary a long time.
Eddie Moore, famous guy.
So Mary was just a next door neighbor and was friendly with all the kids.
And they came over and played with her and all.
But she kept it around her neck for years as a keepsake.
Just as Jack was sickly and a favorite kid at first.
She was the godmother.
But anyway, let me see what else we have.
I mean, I have their passports, which are stunning.
Oh, yeah, they're stunning.
I don't know which one it's in.
I have to believe that the Kennedy Library people have made multiple inquiries.
They came to my mother's house in 96, Riggs and Johnson, the curator.
They came down and just lost their lunch.
They had all this stuff.
What kinds of things do they have in comparison?
Same type of thing.
It's the National Archives.
They do more research things.
But come on back here, what you fail to see is all of this material, which is not inventory, that is a ton of great stuff.
Like, for instance, I have a basic inventory, but in here are all these files of Edel and Lincoln, which is just crammed with documents and letters and wonderful stuff.
Notes, like you just pulled out something from Hebert Humphrey to Edel and Lincoln.
I spent 18 months working in the museum to put out an exhibit.
I didn't spend time with this.
I didn't get a chance.
I know what's here, but all this is Evelyn Lincoln's stuff.
If you think Herbie and Mary Gallagher had stuff, Evelyn Lincoln had stuff.
No comparison.
I have this listed, but it's very, very, very interesting.
But there's no way to know how the follow-up of that.
No, well, unless it's got papers with it.
But these are, Evel Lincoln kept her files.
I have pictures of her working on her files.
But each box is categorized.
And there's kitsch stuff.
This is all the little kitschy things which people that collect Kennedy would have.
Buttons, pins, badges.
Sure.
Magazines have got tons and tons of, you know,
Anything you want in magazines.
Warren commissions.
How did you become friendly with this?
I wrote in the White House in 63.
So while she was in the White House.
Oh, yeah.
I should have a copy of that.
That's okay, but would you say that's the heart, the core of the collection?
What?
The Lincoln stuff, or is most of the stuff reduced?
The best stuff is Evelyn Lincoln's, but there are things that I got that are just equally as great.
It didn't come from her, but yeah, there's great stuff.
I have... Now, did she sell this to you or give it to you?
No, she gave it to me.
I saw her... What in her mind was the... I always thought I was going to have a museum, and she wanted me to carry one as a legacy to her.
But she didn't know that there was a Kennedy Library in Boston?
She gave tons of stuff to Kennedy Library.
Oh, yeah.
In fact, I had letters from JFK Jr.
in 92 saying, Mrs. Lincoln, we know you got all this great stuff from my dad.
You were close to him.
We were close to you.
give her some stuff.
She felt sorry for him, she sent him two file cabinets up there.
But this stuff, she loved and she willed me, along with the Kennedy Library in 1995 when she died, a significant portion of her collection along with that marker.
This is Elize Palace.
I have like 10 or 12 of these.
I have all the first ones.
These were done by the CIA.
You sold some of the sales, but these were the ones that were scored.
didn't get cut. Right. She stopped it yeah and what I did is I talked about the prayer cards, and made these up and I was going to sell them but I never did and these are two original front and back, but I have all the remainders of uh. Those are prayer cards. Yeah from somewhere from his funeral. Jackie didn't like this. She said forget it, so they went with this one. Yeah this is the only picture in existence of the original. He only wanted him wearing glasses in there.
Look at that.
Even Cecil Stoughton who took it when he saw it, he went, you know the library doesn't have that?
There's a number on the back of this photograph.
If you look in the files of the library and go in, write them down, numbers.
Because Stoughton took pictures on a day, on any given day.
The next day he filed them in a file cabinet.
That's how he kept his file going.
And then one day became two, became three, a thousand days.
So this photograph, when they saw that he had glasses on,
Kennedy didn't even know he snapped it.
He said, get rid of it.
So he destroyed the negative.
So the negative doesn't exist then?
No.
If you look in the Kennedy library, there's a number missing.
That's the only print of that?
That's the only print of it.
He's reading flea powder for the dog.
I'll be down.
Look at that.
And I've actually, in my collection somewhere, I have that published in the newspaper.
You see it in the paper.
I've never seen him with glasses before.
Yeah.
I have one of him as senator with the glasses.
I have his glasses.
I have two pairs of his glasses as president.
And there's a woman in the picture?
That's everyone.
That's John Jr.
I have a bunch of books.
Mrs. Lincoln gave me letters on everything that I have also, plus all her correspondence with me.
That's the last picture of them in the Oval Office two days before Dallas with her cousin.
Two days before Dallas.
And then I had her sign stuff, like this picture right here of Kennedy that hung in the Senate office.
I have that one.
I believe, if I'm not mistaken, I saw it the other day.
So how old were you in 63 when you wrote her?
I was 13.
So she was responding to a kid, a teenage boy.
Oh, yeah.
That's the one from Life magazine.
And all these magazines would send him stuff like that to get close to him.
I have all of these over here are original photographs.
There's thousands of them.
Her and I together.
Kennedy, birthday party, and these are all letters to my wife and cards and this thing.
Here she's, she loaned me that picture, and I took a picture of it, and she's telling me to give it back to her because it's so rare.
Look at that.
And then, this is just one book.
This is another book, Swift.
I photographed each item, and Jimmy Pearsall gave him this.
Jimmy Pearsall.
Yep.
And each item has letters with it, a photograph, and a letter of documentation.
Mm-hmm.
Plus, here, you got this one.
That's very insightful, both of you.
So it's April 5th, 1989.
Dear Robert, I've been a collector of memorabilia most of my life and due to my relationship with important people.
I've been fortunate to collect, and this is with an Emanuel typewriter, by the way, in 1989.
That's not an electric typewriter.
Most of the items I've collected have either been given to me or have been discarded.
The collection which I have made available to you is the John F. Kennedy collection, which I started in the early 1950s.
Many of these personal items have been saved from extinction by me.
Many items were given to me by John F. Kennedy.
Others were discarded items, even from the wastebasket.
Soon after, Mrs. Kennedy moved out of the White House in 1964 to the Avril Harrowman home on Oak Street in Georgetown.
She filled an entire roof with castoffs, dresses, yard goods, all kinds of clothing belonging to the president, herself and her children, et cetera, were piled high on long tables in several boxes and wicker baskets lining the walls where castoff jewelry, memorabilia, gifts, trinkets, and items obtained over the years.
Mrs. Kennedy invited me, among the first of many of her friends,
to come to that room and choose anything I wanted from the entire room.
This I did, and I must say that I carried away many, many very personal items. I have only given you necessary letters of authenticity to accompany each item I have made available to you. I am sending this letter to you to be added to your collection for future generations. Sincerely, Evelyn Lincoln, Personal Secretary to our late President John F. Kennedy. And it's addressed to Robert L. White in Bloomsbury, Baltimore, Maryland, 2122.
I guess that makes it pretty clear doesn't it huh? That's that's the letter of transmittal. Okay that's great yeah that's great. Yes. I don't want to break it. Okay yeah. I asked Mrs. lincoln in 89, I said you know when I'm dead and you're dead
Somebody's going to say, why did you have this?
She told me.
I said, could you write me a letter?
And I never said to her, I didn't put words in her mouth.
I said, you write it.
So that's a great letter.
Wow.
Who was her next of kin?
I mean, she had a husband.
Her husband died 40 days after her.
And so he was all obviously in sync with all this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We were great.
We were great friends.
Did they have children?
All the items with the lead letters.
Yeah.
Mass 61 H5757.
I even had his lunch tray that he ate lunch off of.
It's a bit overwhelming, isn't it?
Oh, it's interesting stuff.
Yeah.
And what I was getting at with this stuff is... Dad had her sign, but there she is, right here, and with Ted and Peter Walker and all of them at the piano.
And there's been tons of articles about this kind of stuff, you know.
This is from Saturday Evening Post.
You know about the doodles, right?
No.
His secretary even saved the doodles.
Her and I, I could do a book on his doodles.
I know more about his doodles.
This is Evelyn N. Lincoln, JFK.
The secretary during the Senate and the White House even saved the doodles when she cleaned out his desk.
She kept the file for each day.
He was in office.
The valet George Thomas gave her the scrivensy file when he put away the president's clothes.
Compulsive doodle.
Kennedy usually wrote down the topic under discussion, then drew boxes around the names in Cuba.
So did you get most of the doodles?
I've got a lot of them.
She made books for the Kennedy Library, but I got a lot of doodles.
I have him drawing an atomic bomb.
I have him blockading Cuba.
where he's blocking Fidel Castro and all that.
This is an EP sound.
I never showed this to anybody.
This is Mrs. Lincoln in 68, waiting to JFK in heaven.
She was like... Did she start losing it?
No, she didn't lose it.
This is in her hand.
This is handwritten.
It's pretty strange.
Is it dated?
No, but she says it's been five years now since your death.
Well, my dear Mr. President, it has been over six years, so it's 69 since you left us.
And although time has passed rather swiftly, I wanted you to know how very much you have been missed here on Earth.
It seemed only yesterday that you were coming out to my office looking for a mail memoranda and reminders I kept on the
corners of my desk. These were interesting days filled with joy and happiness. I miss them, miss them, very much. In fact I have a feeling that the whole world misses them, and then there was Dallas, looking back over those grim dark hours that followed the long wait in the hospital before they released your body, heaven forbid, the use of that word. The last ride with you in air force one
the plane you designed and loved, and then the vigil.
Oh, I can't get the rest of it.
Just, uh, that's cheap.
Anyway, I just want to read the final sheet.
The vigil at the Bethesda Medical Hospital all seemed like a nightmare.
I will never forget the very next morning after that horrible day in Dallas.
It was so sad to see the new red carpeting in your office.
and mine that had been laid during our absence.
It was to be a surprise for you.
Instead, I was the one who was surprised.
Because shortly after I arrived in my office, a new president came in somewhere around 8.30 a.m., said he would like to see me in his office.
His office, I thought, there must be a mistake.
Only yesterday it was yours.
Neverland, he was saying, I need you
more than you need me. Do you think you could have your things moved out of your office by nine? I have an appointment in this office at 9:30, and I would like to move my girls in at nine o'clock. It wasn't important what I said. All I could think of was the many days weeks and years that had been since together since us together since
taken us to gather together all of the things that... All right, Bob, here's a very... Isn't that interesting?
Yeah, it's really something.
Bob, I spent a day at that desk, that table outside of my office, mixing and matching the collateral stuff, all the garbage, and taking pictures and going, okay, this looks good with this.
I'll remove this Jackie picture, you know.
Right, right, right.
Isn't that neat?
That's something, yeah.
That's something.
I've never seen anybody that.
Did she use that material in her book?
No.
She didn't.
That's a very important document.
No matter what you see, you're going to say yes.
When you try to put it in perspective, it's almost impossible.
Well, some of the things are clearly minutiae.
For whatever reason, I have them all.
I mean, I have to put it in perspective.
of some importance, you lose it.
You lose the whole structure.
Unless you see it as intelligent.
Well, it's the material objects of an important 20th century life.
Exactly.
And the material artifact is the in thing today, isn't it?
Yeah, just to get your point of reference.
I remember that, Nick.
I was picking up, keep your tape on it.
I was doing Helen Susser, who was the most female executive.
She takes over tomorrow when Laurel goes over to Europe and she gets a postcard from Bill Shire from Berlin, December 9, 1939.
Say, Helen, how are you doing?
We miss you over here.
Ed, send us regards.
You know, when are you going to become a war correspondent, and then, I hate it here, signed Bill.
How much is that worth?
A hundred dollars, two hundred dollars.
But when you take a Bill Shire close correspondence, and you put these in a relationship with all the churns, and you see with Ed, I mean, now this is a whole new world.
You know, they were responsible, Edmond and Bill Shire, for the first broadcast of news, of international news.
They had never done it before, and they did it on December 10th.
So this was the day before the international broadcast of the war that they knew together from one day, which acknowledges the first broadcast
It's like I have a custom.
But the one book I've not read, I wouldn't sell it to him.
I just don't want to sell it.
Then when we did the Kennedy auction, he was an expert, he's a civilian, he doesn't buy, he's selling, he belongs to the UAC, he collected the autograph card, and he's the regional president.
So I asked him to come in to overlook my appraiser and tell me what was authentic and what wasn't.
I didn't tell him what I said was real and what wasn't, but he went every item that was exactly where I was, what was authentic, he said was authentic, what I thought wasn't authentic, wasn't.
I do the same thing with Bob.
So I said, what do I owe you for yourself?
And he goes, you know that letter from Johnson?
Give me a price.
So I said, okay, you can have it for $250 or $350.
Whatever.
And he jumped, he went to check.
He goes, Alan, you know what this letter is?
I said, well, it's the last letter he wrote before he had a heart attack and all that.
I told you, it was after you made the deal.
Yeah.
He goes, hey, look at the date.
I said, that's what the date.
I said, okay, I do.
He goes, but look, he even timed it.
He had a heart attack at 1148.
This is timed 1191.
This guy's an expert in that minutia.
But that's what we tell people.
Know your subject better than anyone else.
And I want to break, you know what?
I see my opportunities, and I see them.
I don't care.
You know, because you just told me it was something, and you did it as a friendship.
Now, if you were setting me up to buy this letter and doing it, then I'd be upset.
And I looked at him, and he goes, ah.
Then again, when I got the material from
Yeah, you can have it.
Okay.
I said, well, you won't have it with Alan.
He's an expert.
So, Bob and I wrote down the prices of what we thought he should be able to afford.
And then we turned over the cards.
Anyway, yeah.
I'm sorry, Alan.
No, it's fine.
That's a basic inventory.
Remember, I told you I'd get you all.
The basic inventory.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Let me show you this.
That's a basic inventory.
You can read this.
Yeah, okay.
Okay, this is my travel exhibit.
Uh.
Political beginnings is Gallery 3.
So I go to Gallery 3, and I see which case.
Okay, JFK and Jackie's Passports.
It's Gallery 3, Case 18.
Then I go here, and I go to Gallery 3, Case 18.
Miracle.
Well, this is pretty good.
So you're pretty well organized.
Well, I'm organized pretty well.
How do you start this job?
Well, Alan.
No, no, no.
Why don't you open them both?
Well, you got the passport.
Yeah.
Now, the JFK one is his first trip to Vietnam on a fact-finding tour all over Asia.
This is when she's in Southampton attending the coronation of the Queen and cables him to marry her.
Cables him to marry her.
No, it's a lot.
There it is.
And you see the purple stamp right here?
That's Southampton.
She's in Southampton.
So that's when he goes and meets Lansdale.
Oh, this is this one.
Is that the one of 53, 54?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's the one he meets Lansdale.
Okay, we've just come out.
Burma.
Yeah, he had just come out of the Philippines.
Vietnam.
Oh, yeah.
You see, I love getting history books, and they say, at certain certain dates, he's somewhere, and I'm going, no, he's not.
And I know where he is.
But you see, that's a very important historical artifact.
Sure, yeah.
Do you know where the landfill is?
Oh, my gosh.
So just these passports and do you have other passports?
They look like a baby.
They're five years earlier in the life before they got married.
In fact, hers is amended.
It's issued to Jacqueline Bouvier.
He's 31.
He's 33 years old.
It's issued, and she leaves her mother as next to kin, and then it's right here.
See, it's Jacqueline Bouvier.
Jacqueline Bouvier.
And then right here, it's changed to Amanda Bouvier.
Now, where did you get these?
These were from Evelyn Lincoln.
They're castoffs.
They're canceled passports.
She saved them.
Otherwise, they're in the trash.
Now, what kind of a value would you put on those?
Right now?
Yeah.
Considering what we've seen?
If somebody came in with these two passports and put them in an auction, out of context, out of the context of this collection?
$52,000.
I think so, yeah.
Wouldn't you?
I would think so.
Look at that.
I would.
$50,000.
Yeah, but the problem is, you're going to find another one.
No, but the thing is, you're applying monetary value for items which are historically... I know, the pictures are quieter.
How do you make classes?
Well, come on, it's your business.
I know, don't get me there.
I know, I'm sweet.
I'm sure the guts.
Now, what's that?
Yeah.
Oh, those are Xeroxes.
Those are pretty good Xeroxes.
Yeah, they're called Xeroxes.
The people love it.
This is a favorite.
Two people make it worth a quarter of an email.
I'm not suggesting you need one.
I would love one.
No, I have the chocolate ones.
I use multiple ones.
I don't know how long they last, but they make you feel like it.
So we have a whole box of the chalkboard.
I'll give you some chalkboards to the road.
Yeah, change your taste.
I eat a lot of those.
It's like the nose.
Come on back here.
These are my favorites.
Oh, the flag?
The flag on the car in Dallas.
Yeah.
Oh, can I see?
That's the flag.
Yeah.